>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY
AUGUST, 2:
NEW EFFORTS UNDERWAY IN EGYPT TO
TRY TO END THE FIGHTING BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND HAMAS.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT TO THOUSANDS
OF CHILDREN IN THIS COUNTRY
ILLEGALLY NOW THAT CONGRESS HAS
RECESSED WITHOUT FUNDING A
SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM?
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
GENDER NON-CONFORMING PEOPLE AND
THE FASHION WORLD THAT’S
STARTING TO MARKET TO THEM.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU SAID TODAY THAT ISRAEL
HAS ACCOMPLISHED MANY OF ITS
GOALS DURING ITS NEARLY FOUR-
WEEK-LONG CONFLICT WITH HAMAS.
AND ISRAELI TROOPS AND TANKS
BEGAN TO PULL BACK FROM PARTS OF
GAZA.
NETANYAHU SIGNALED THAT A WIDER
PULLBACK COULD BE COMING AFTER
THE LAST OF THE HAMAS TUNNELS
LEADING INTO ISRAEL FROM GAZA
ARE DESTROYED.
>> (translated): THE MILITARY
WILL PREPARE FOR CONTINUING
ACTION IN ACCORDING TO OUR
SECURITY NEEDS AND ONLY
ACCORDING TO OUR SECURITY NEEDS.
UNTIL WE OBTAIN THE OBJECTIVE OF
RETURNING SECURITY TO YOU THE
CITIZENS OF ISRAEL.
>> Sreenivasan: AN ESTIMATED
1,650 PALESTINIANS AND 66
ISRAELIS HAVE BEEN KILLED DURING
THE FIGHTING.
MEANWHILE, THE EGYPTIAN LEADER,
ABDEL FATTAH AL-SISI, IS HOSTING
A MEETING IN CAIRO WITH
PALESTINIAN OFFICIALS TO TRY TO
BROKER A NEW, MORE LASTING CEASE
FIRE BETWEEN ISRAEL AND HAMAS.
AN EARLIER CEASE FIRE ARRANGED
BY EGYPT BROKE DOWN AFTER ONLY
HOURS YESTERDAY.
EARLIER TODAY, WE SPOKE VIA
SKYPE FROM JERUSALEM WITH JODI
RUDOREN OF THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE
PLANNED NEGOTIATIONS IN EGYPT?
>> WELL TWO, THINGS.
I MEAN, FIRST OF ALL, THESE
NEGOTIATIONS ARE PART OF A PLAN
THAT SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY AND HEAD OF THE UNITED
NATIONS ARRANGED, TO HAVE A 72
HOUR CEASE-FIRE DURING WHICH,
THE MORE SUBSTANTIVE AGREEMENT
TO END THE FIGHTING.
THAT FELL APART, AS YOU
MENTIONED YESTERDAY, WHEN ISRAEL
RENEWED THE ATTACK AFTER BEING
CONFRONTED BY MILITANTS WHO CAME
OUT OF A TUNNEL, THEY KILLED TWO
SOLDIERS AND SEEMED TO HAVE
CAPTURED AN OFFICER.
SO, THAT WHOLE THING FEEL APART,
THE PALESTINIANS DECIDED TO GO
AHEAD AND GO TO CAIRO, BUT THE
ISRAELIS HAVE NOT DEFINITELY
SAID THEY ARE NOT GOING BUT IT
APPEARS IT SEEMS THEY ARE NOT.
BUT LONGER TERM, IF THERE IS
GOING TO BE ANY RESOLUTION
BEYOND JUST THEM JUST TIRING
THEMSELVES OUT, IS GOING TO
HAPPEN IN TALKS IN CAIRO.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT.
HAS THE INTENSITY ON THE GROUND,
OR THE ISRAELI RESPONSE CHANGED
AFTER THIS MISSING SOLDIER?
>> YES, SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE
SOUTHERN BORDER TOWN OF RAFAH,
WHICH IS WHERE THE TUNNEL WAS,
THERE HAS BEEN A VERY AGGRESSIVE
ASSAULT, MAYBE THE MOST
AGGRESSIVE OF THE WHOLE
CAMPAIGN.
MY COLLEAGUE WAS ON THE GROUND
TODAY IN THE WESTERN SIDE OF
TOWN, WHICH IS THE KIND OF
OPPOSITE SIDE OF TOWN FROM WHERE
THE ACTION WAS, ALL SORTS OF
PEOPLE HAVE EVACUATED THERE.
THE HOSPITAL IN THE EAST SIDE OF
TOWN HAD BEEN HIT, THERE WAS NO
HOSPITAL FUNCTIONING IN RAFAH,
PEOPLE WERE GETTING TREATED AT
CLINICS, HE SAID THERE WERE A
LOT OF BODIES THAT WERE BEING
PRESERVED IN, LIKE, KITCHEN TYPE
FREEZERS, BECAUSE THERE WAS NO
ROOM IN ANY MORGUE.
HE SAID IT WAS A VERY DESPERATE
SITUATION THERE, AND THAT THEY
HAVE BEEN UNDER INTENSE AIR AND
ARTILLERY SHELLING OVERNIGHT AND
I THINK IN THROUGH SOME OF
TODAY, I THINK QUIETER DURING
THE DAYLIGHT.
IN OTHER PARTS OF GAZA, THE
OPERATIONS SEEMED TO HAVE COOLED
DOWN SOME.
THE MILITARY INFORMED RESIDENTS
OF THE NORTHERN TOWN OF, BEIT
LAHIYA, THEY COULD GO BACK TO
THEIR HOMES AND IT WOULD BE
SAFE.
SO THEY MAY BE DONE OPERATING
IN THE NORTH, SO IT IS NOT AN
OVERALL PICTURE INCREASE.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE SEEMS TO
BE SOME BACK AND FORTH ON WHO
HAS BEEN KILLED, ISRAEL CAME OUT
TODAY AND SAID 47% OF THOSE
KILLED IN GAZA MAY BE TERRORISTS
OR WOULD BE TERRORISTS, GAZANS
HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP SAY 80% OF
THOSE KILLED ARE CIVILIANS.
>> YES.
I THINK IT IS NOT DEFINITIVE AND
CERTAINLY IT IS HARD TO TELL IN
THE MIDDLE OF A BATTLE.
I AM NOT SURE WE WILL EVER KNOW
FOR SURE PARTLY BECAUSE OF THE
DEFINITION OF WHAT A MILITANT IS
IN GAZA IS A LITTLE BIT FLUID,
IT IS NOT LIKE YOU ENLIST AND IN
THE MILITARY AND GET A UNIFORM
AND A BADGE NUMBER.
THEY DO HAVE, YOU KNOW, MILITARY
TRAINING AND UNIFORMS AND RANKS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT BUT A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO THE ISRAELIS MAY
CONSIDER PART OF THE MILITIA AND
THE PALESTINIANS MIGHT NOT.
SO I THINK THESE ARE IMPERFECT
ANALOGIES AT BEST.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT.
JODI RUDOREN OF "THE NEW YORK
TIMES" JOINING US VIA SKYPE IN
JERUSALEM.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: FROM NORTH KOREA
TONIGHT, A PLEA FOR HELP TO THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT FROM TWO
AMERICAN TOURISTS BEING HELD
THERE.
56-YEAR-OLD JEFFREY EDWARD FOWLE
AND 24-YEAR-OLD MATTHEW TODD
MILLER TOLD THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
THEY ARE BEING WELL-TREATED BUT
EXPECT TO BE PUT ON TRIAL SOON
FOR "ANTI-STATE CRIMES."
FOWLE IS SUSPECTED OF LEAVING A
BIBLE IN A NIGHTCLUB.
A THIRD AMERICAN, KENNETH BAY,
HAS BEEN HELD THERE FOR NEARLY
21 MONTHS.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, KENT
BRANTLY, A 33-YEAR-OLD AMERICAN
DOCTOR WHO CONTRACTED EBOLA
AFTER GOING TO WEST AFRICA TO
TREAT IT, WAS FLOWN TO A
MILITARY BASE NEAR ATLANTA TODAY
ON A SPECIALLY EQUIPPED
CHARTERED AIRPLANE.
HE WAS THEN TRANSPORTED BY
AMBULANCE TO EMORY UNIVERSITY
HOSPITAL.
HE NEEDED ASSISTANCE BUT WAS
ABLE TO WALK OUT OF THE VEHICLE.
BRANTLEY WILL BE TREATED IN AN
ISOLATION WARD.
THE HEAD OF THE ISOLATION UNIT
THERE SAID-- QUOTING NOW-- "NO
ONE IS IN ANY WAY AT RISK."
IT’S THE FIRST TIME ANYONE
INFECTED WITH EBOLA HAS BEEN
BROUGHT TO THE UNITED STATES.
THE OUTBREAK IN AFRICA HAS
KILLED MORE THAN 700 PEOPLE.
THE FATE OF TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE, MANY OF THEM CHILDREN,
WHO ENTERED THE UNITED STATES
ILLEGALLY, REMAINS UNRESOLVED
TONIGHT.
BEFORE ADJOURNING LATE LAST
NIGHT, THE REPUBLICAN-LED HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES PASSED A
MEASURE THAT WOULD SPEED
DEPORTATIONS.
BUT THE DEMOCRAT-LED SENATE DID
NOT TAKE UP THE BILL BEFORE
LEAVING FOR THE SUMMER RECESS
AND THE HOUSE MEASURE HAS LITTLE
CHANCE OF SUCCESS THERE.
WHAT COMES NEXT?
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED TONIGHT
FROM WASHINGTON BY CHRISTINA
BELLANTONI.
SHE IS THE EDITOR IN CHIEF AT
"ROLL CALL."
SO WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
FOR THE NEXT FIVE WEEKS, AS
CONGRESS IS IN RECESS, DO ALL OF
THESE PEOPLE IN THE DETENTION
CENTERS NOW JUST STAY THERE?
>> NO, THERE IS NOT A LIMBO.
THE PRESIDENT HAD A NEWS
CONFERENCE YESTERDAY WHERE HE
SAID HE WOULD BE FORCED TO TAKE
MATTERS INTO HIS OWN HANDS EVEN
THOUGH CONGRESS HAS BEEN
CRITICAL OF HIM DOING SO ON
OTHER MATTERS, INCLUDING
IMMIGRATION.
SO THE WHITE HOUSE TOLD ME THIS
MORNING AND THE ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIAL SAID THEY ARE GOING TO
TAKE $405 MILLION, THAT IS MUCH,
MUCH LESS THAN THE HOUSE
APPROVED AND LESS THAN THE
PRESIDENT HAD INITIALLY ASKED
FOR.
AND THEY WANTED TO TRANSFER THAT
DOWN TO HELP EASE EITHER
DEPORTATION PROCEEDINGS OR HAVE
FACILITIES DOWN AT THE BORDER
FOR HOUSING THESE CHILD MIGRANTS
OR WAYS THEY CAN SPEED UP SOME
OF THE PROCESSES THEY ARE MAKING
A LITTLE MORE SMOOTHLY, BUT THAT
MONEY IS COMING FROM OTHER
PLACES, THEY ARE TAKING THE
MAJORITY OF IT, $270 MILLION
FROM FEDERAL EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT FUNDS THAT WOULD DEAL
WITH ANY SORT OF DISASTER
RELIEF.
AND YOU MAY RECALL THAT WHEN THE
PRESIDENT FIRST ASKED CONGRESS
FOR THIS EMERGENCY SPENDING,
MORE THAN A MONTH AGO, HE
ACTUALLY INCLUDED A LOT OF MONEY
FOR WILDFIRE RELIEF AND SO IN
ADDITION TO NOT HAVING THAT
FUNDING PUT IN PLACE, THEY ARE
TAKING MONEY FROM OTHER
DISASTERS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THIS BECOMES
A SOURCE OF CONTENTION FOR
STATES THAT MIGHT BE SAY, FOR
EXAMPLE, IN HURRICANE ALLEY,
SAYING SOME OF OUR FUNDS ARE
DIVERTED TO THE BORDER STATES IN
THE SOUTH.
>> SURE, OR TORNADOES, OR
DROUGHT, WHICH IS A BIG ISSUE IN
TEXAS.
SO IT ALLOWS FOR SOME MONEY TO
GO DOWN TO HELP TEXAS NATIONAL
GUARD TO ALLEVIATE SOME OF THE
ISSUES.
IT IS ALSO IMPORTANT TO POINT
OUT THAT SOME OF THE NUMBERS
THAT WE ARE SEEING COMING ACROSS
THE BORDER, WE GET A LITTLE BIT
OF A DELAY IN THAT REPORTING AND
THE CROSSING BY CHILD MIGRANTS
IN ACTUALLY DOWN, BECUASE IT
IS THAT HOT SUMMER MONTHS, SO
WE ARE SEEING FEWER AND FEWER
COMING ACROSS THE BOARDER, THE
NUMBERS ARE STILL FAR UP FROM
PREVIOUS YEARS, BUT THEY ARE
DOWN OVER RECENT MONTHS.
BUT THAT DOESN’T MEAN THE
PROBLEM IS GOING TO GO AWAY AND
WHEN THE CONGRESS COMES BACK IN
SEPTEMBER, THE SENATE PROBABLY
WILL EASILY DISPATCH THE HOUSE’S
BILL, WE DON’T KNOW FOR SURE HOW
THAT WILL PLAY OUT, THEY MAY
COME UP WITH SOME COMPROMISE
MIDDLE GROUND, AND THE PRESIDENT
WILL ALREADY HAVE TRANSFERRED
THAT MONEY SO THEY COULD END UP
FUNDING IT CLOSER TO THE LEVEL
THAN HE INITIALLY
ASKED FOR.
>> Sreenivasan: AND HOW MUCH OF
THIS PLAYS INTO THE REELECTION
CAMPAIGNS OF SOME OF THESE
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS THAT ARE
HEADING BACK, JUST TO GET THIS
PARTICULAR PIECE OF LEGISLATION
THROUGH WHERE IT IS NOW?
>> THAT IS A CENTRAL QUESTION
THAT OUR JOURNALIST AT ROLL CALL
ARE LOOKING INTO.
AND TALKING TO MEMBERS BACK HOME
IN THEIR DISTRICT, WHAT ARE THEY
HEARING FROM THEIR CONSTITUENTS?
ARE THEY PAYING ATTENTION TO
THIS ISSUE?
DO THEY CARE?
MEANWHILE, YOU HAVE A LOT OF
FOREIGN POLICY CRISES THAT ARE
ALSO GENERATING A LOT OF
ATTENTION AND CONCERN AMONG
AMERICANS, IT IS LESS THAN 100
DAYS FROM THE MIDTERM ELECTIONS.
BUT THE OTHER ELEMENT THAT IS
PLAYING OUT HERE IS, IMMIGRATION
ADVOCATES ARE REALLY STEPPING UP
PRESSURE ON THE WHITE HOUSE,
URGING THEM TO TAKE EVEN BROADER
ACTION WHEN IT COMES TO DEFERRED
ACTION FOR SO-CALLED DREAMERS,
AND SO THE PRESIDENT HAS HELPED
THE MEETINGS, THESE IMMIGRATION
ADVOCATES HAVE SAID IT SOUNDS AS
THOUGH HE MAY BE WILLING TO
EXPAND WHAT HE DID IN 2012
THROUGH EXECUTIVE ACTION.
SO THOSE ISSUES ARE PLAYING OUT
AT THE EXACT SAME TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT.
CHRISTINA BELLANTONI, JOINING US
FROM ROLL CALL, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AN ESTIMATED
400,000 PEOPLE IN AND AROUND
TOLEDO, OHIO, ARE HAVING TO RELY
ON BOTTLED WATER AFTER TOXINS--
POSSIBLY FROM ALGAE ON LAKE
ERIE-- POLLUTED THE CITY’S WATER
SUPPLY.
OFFICIALS SAID BOILING THE WATER
MIGHT ONLY MAKE THE PROBLEM
WORSE.
GOVERNOR JOHN KASICH DECLARED A
STATE EMERGENCY AND SAID WATER
IS BEING SHIPPED TO TOLEDO FROM
OTHER PARTS OF THE STATE.
CALIFORNIA STATE PRISON
OFFICIALS HAVE ISSUED NEW
POLICIES LIMITING THE USE OF
FORCE ON MENTALLY ILL PRISONERS.
THIS AFTER GRAPHIC IMAGES
EMERGED OF INMATES, SOME
DESCRIBED AS SCREAMING AND
DELIRIOUS, BEING PEPPER SPRAYED
IN THEIR CELLS.
IN ONE INSTANCE, A MENTALLY ILL
INMATE WAS FOUND DEAD IN HIS
CELL LAST YEAR AFTER BEING
PEPPER SPRAYED.
THE STATE ESTIMATES THAT 33,000
PRISONERS THERE ARE MENTALLY
ILL.
HERE IN NEW YORK CITY,
THE MEDICAL EXAMINER SAID A 43-
YEAR-OLD MAN WHO APPEARED TO
HAVE BEEN PLACED IN A CHOKEHOLD
BY POLICE WAS THE VICTIM OF A
HOMICIDE.
THE OFFICERS HAD ARRESTED ERIC
GARNER FOR ALLEGEDLY SELLING
BOOTLEG CIGARETTES ON THE
STREET.
AN AUTOPSY FOUND THAT GARNER’S
POOR OVERALL HEALTH CONTRIBUTED
TO HIS DEATH BUT WAS NOT THE
PRIMARY CAUSE.
THE OFFICER INVOLVED WAS
STRIPPED OF HIS GUN AND TAKEN
OFF OF STREET DUTY BUT HAS NOT
BEEN CRIMINALLY CHARGED.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE COMING
DAYS, THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE WILL RELEASE A
DECLASSIFIED VERSION OF A 6,000-
PAGE REPORT EXAMINING THE
C.I.A.’S RENDITION, DETENTION
AND INTERROGATION PROGRAM.
YESTERDAY, ANTICIPATING THE
REPORT, THE PRESIDENT SAID,
QUOTING NOW: "WE TORTURED SOME
FOLKS.
WE DID SOME THINGS THAT WERE
CONTRARY TO OUR VALUES."
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED TONIGHT
FROM WASHINGTON BY SIOBHAN
GORMAN.
SHE IS THE INTELLIGENCE
CORRESPONDENT FOR THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL."
SO WHAT IS LIKELY TO BE IN
THIS REPORT THAT THE PRESIDENT
IS TRYING TO PREPARE COUNTRY
FOR?
>> WELL, WE HAVE REPORTED ON THE
BROAD OUTLINES OF IT OVER THE
PAST FEW MONTHS, AND IT SOUNDS
LIKE IT IS GOING TO BE CERTAINLY
HIGHLY CRITICAL OF THE C.I.A.’S
EXECUTION OF THE PROGRAM, AND,
WELL, AMONG OTHER THINGS SAY
THAT THE AGENCY MISLED BOTH THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT AND CONGRESS
AND I GUESS BY EXTENSION THE
PUBLIC ABOUT THE EFFECTIVENESS
OF THE PROGRAM.
>> Sreenivasan: SO CONSIDERING
THAT EVERYTHING IS GOING TO BE
COMPILED INTO THIS ONE LARGE
REPORT, IS IT LIKELY TO
HIGHLIGHT THE MISMANAGEMENT OF
THE AGENCY THAT LED TO ALL OF
THESE PROBLEMS?
>> I THINK WE WILL SEE THAT AS
ONE OF THE KEY FINDINGS OF THIS
REPORT.
WE ARE TOLD THAT THE C.I.A.
COUNTER-TERRORISM CENTERS
MANAGEMENT OF THE PROGRAM WAS AT
TIMES REALLY INCORRECT AND
INAPPROPRIATE, AND THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT LAW MAKERS HAVE
SAID IS AN ISSUE THAT STILL
NEEDS TO BE LOOKED AT THE C.I.A.
SO THAT MAY PRODUCE SORT OF
FOLLOW-UP PROPOSALS FOR REFORM.
>> Sreenivasan: ANY OTHER IDEA
OF ANY OF THE OTHER KEY FINDINGS
IN HERE?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT ONE OF THE
BIG TAKE AWAYS, AT LEAST AS I
HAVE SPOKEN WITH PEOPLE WHO HAVE
READ THE REPORT IS, THAT PEOPLE
MAY NOT APPRECIATE HOW THESE
TECHNIQUES WERE USED IN
CONJUNCTION WITH EACH OTHER.
IT IS ONE THING TO THINK THE
DETAINEES WERE BEING DEPRIVED OF
SLEEP, BEING EXPOSED TO LOUD
MUSIC, BEING THROWN AGAINST
WALLS, A WHOLE ASSORTMENT OF
THINGS IN ADDITION TO FOR A FEW
OF DETAINEES ALSO WATER
BOARDING, BUT IF YOU THINK ABOUT
A LOT OF THOSE BEING USED SORT
OF BACK-TO-BACK OVER AN EXTENDED
PERIOD OF TIME, THE IMPACT IS
SOMEWHAT MORE SIGNIFICANT THAN
WHAT PEOPLE MAY HAVE ALREADY
THOUGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: SO HOW MANY
PEOPLE HAVE ENDURED SOME OF
THESE DIFFERENT PRACTICES BY THE
C.I.A.?
>> WELL, MY RECOLLECTION IS THAT
IT IS SOMEWHERE AROUND 100 OR
SOMETHING LESS THAN THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: AND HOW THIS
REPORT WAS GENERATED ALSO MADE
NEWS IN WEEK WITH THE
REVELATIONS THAT C.I.A. WAS
SPYING ON SOME OF THE MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE COMMITTEE WHO WERE
INVESTIGATING THIS REPORT.
>> YES.
IT WAS, SORT OF, A FINAL STAGES
OF REVIEWING THE REPORT AND SORT
OF THE C.I.A.’S RESPONSE TO IT,
THE C.I.A., I GUESS, CAME TO
SUSPECT THAT THE SENATE MAY HAVE
INAPPROPRIATELY OBTAINED AN
INTERNAL DOCUMENT AND THE C.I.A.
TOOK IT UPON ITSELF TO TRY TO
FIGURE OUT BY MONITORING SENATE
NETWORKS WHETHER OR NOT THEY HAD
BEEN, YOU KNOW, WHETHER OR NOT
THERE WAS NETWORK VULNERABILITY
OR WHETHER THE DOCUMENT HAD BEEN
STOLEN FROM THE C.I.A., AND WHEN
THE C.I.A. DIRECTOR JOHN BRENNAN
BROUGHT THIS ISSUE TO THE HEADS
OF THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE IN JANUARY, IT CREATED
A HUGE KIND OF AN INTERNAL
FIRESTORM WITHIN THE COMMITTEE
AND THEN IT STILL GOT INTO THE
PUBLIC IN THE SPRING.
AND THE OTHER DAY, THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL OF THE C.I.A. FINALLY
WEIGHED IN WITH HIS SORT OF
VERDICT ON IT, AND HE FOUND THAT
INDEED THE C.I.A. HAD
INAPPROPRIATELY MONITORED SENATE
NETWORKS TO INCLUDE DOING
KEY WORD SEARCHES OF STAFF E-
MAILS AND IN SOME CASES
REVIEWING E-MAILS.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
SIOBHAN GORMAN, INTELLIGENCE
CORRESPONDENCE FOR THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL," THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, OUR ORIGINAL
IN-DEPTH REPORTS FROM AROUND THE
NATION AND AROUND THE WORLD.
TONIGHT, WE LOOK AT CHANGING
DEFINITIONS OF GENDER.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, FACEBOOK
OFFERED ITS USERS DOZENS OF
ADDITIONAL WAYS TO IDENTIFY
THEMSELVES OTHER THAN MALE OR
FEMALE.
THE COMPANY SAID IT WANTS
PEOPLE, QUOTING NOW, "TO FEEL
COMFORTABLE BEING YOUR TRUE,
AUTHENTIC SELF."
AND GERMANY AND AUSTRALIA NOW
OFFER THEIR CITIZENS A THIRD BOX
TO CHECK ON THEIR PASSPORTS
OTHER THAN MALE OR FEMALE.
OF COURSE, SOME MEMBERS OF THE
LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL AND
TRANSGENDER COMMUNITY SAY THEY
DON’T WANT TO HAVE TO FIT INTO
ANY BOX AT ALL.
AND NOW, THE FASHION INDUSTRY IS
RESPONDING TO THEM IN A WAY
THAT’S NEVER OCCURRED BEFORE.
THE NEWSHOUR’S IVETTE FELICIANO
REPORTS.
>> MY GENDER IDENTITY IS REALLY
BASED IN BOTH MY EXPERIENCES AS
A WOMAN, AND ALSO IT’S JUST
DEEPLY ROOTED IN THE FACT THAT
I’M MASCULINE.
>> Reporter: RACHEL TUTERA SAYS
IT WASN’T UNTIL SHE STARTED
WEARING BOY’S CLOTHES AS A PRE-
TEEN, THAT SHE STARTED TO FEEL
LIKE THE MOST AUTHENTIC VERSION
OF HERSELF.
YET, THE 29-YEAR-OLD SAYS
SHOPPING FOR CLOTHES IN THE
MEN’S DEPARTMENT LEFT HER
FEELING INSECURE AND SELF-
CONSCIOUS.
NOTHING EVER FIT HER
PROPORTIONS.
SO SHE WAS RESIGNED TO THINKING
THAT’S JUST THE WAY IT WAS.
>> I GOT USED TO WEARING CLOTHES
THAT HID ME.
I THOUGHT I WOULD JUST END UP
BEING SOMEONE WHO WOULD PREFER
TO BE OVERLOOKED, OR NOT WORTH
SORT OF A SECOND GLANCE.
>> TYPICALLY, YOU SHOW A LITTLE
BIT OF CUFF.
>> Reporter: AFTER YEARS OF
FRUSTRATION SHOPPING OFF THE
RACK, TUTERA DECIDED TO PURCHASE
HER FIRST TAILORED MEN’S SUIT
AND SHE SAYS THE WAY SHE FELT
WHEN SHE TRIED IT ON CHANGED HER
LIFE.
>> HAVING SOMETHING CUSTOM-MADE
FOR MY BODY, BASICALLY, RE-
INTRODUCED ME TO MY BODY, AND I
HAVE FELT, LIKE, INCREDIBLY
VISIBLE IN A WAY THAT’S NOT JUST
CAUSING PEOPLE TO TAKE A SECOND
LOOK AT ME, BUT I THINK PEOPLE
SEE ME IN A WAY THAT MAY
ACTUALLY BE ALIGNED WITH HOW I
SEE MYSELF.
AND THAT HAS BEEN THE MOST,
LIKE, POWERFUL, MIND-BLOWING
THING.
>> Reporter: THE EXPERIENCE MADE
TUTERA WANT TO PASS THAT FEELING
ALONG TO OTHERS.
SO SHE APPROACHED THE NEW YORK
BASED MADE-TO-ORDER-MEN’S SUIT
COMPANY, BINDLE AND KEEP,
CONVINCING THE OWNER THAT HE WAS
OVERLOOKING AN UNDER-SERVED
MARKET.
NOT ONLY MASCULINE WOMEN, BUT
ALSO TRANSGENDER MEN AND OTHER
GENDER NON-CONFORMING PEOPLE WHO
WANT WELL-FITTING MEN’S SUITS.
SHE SOON BECAME THE COMPANY’S
L.G.B.T.Q. LIAISON, SERVING
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY, WHO SOMETIMES SPEND UP
TO $1,500 FOR THEIR CUSTOM MADE
SUIT.
>> THIS IS NOT JUST A NEED THAT
IS BEING RECOGNIZED IN
PROGRESSIVE CITIES.
>> Reporter: HAS IT BEEN
EMOTIONAL FOR ANY OF YOUR
CLIENTS?
>> YES, IT HAS BEEN EMOTIONAL,
FOR SURE.
SHOPPING OR WEARING CLOTHES
SEEMS LIKE A REALLY MUNDANE
THING, BUT ACTUALLY IT’S, LIKE,
INCREDIBLY MEANINGFUL, AND
INCREDIBLY POWERFUL, AND IT CAN
REALLY, LIKE, MAKE OR BREAK AN
IDENTITY.
>> THERE ARE SO MANY DIFFERENT
WAYS TO BE GENDER NONCONFORMING.
AND THERE’S AN EXPLOSION OF NEW
VOCABULARIES TO TALK ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: ANN PELLEGRINI IS
THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR
GENDER AND SEXUALITY AT NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY.
>> MANY GENDER NON-CONFORMING
PEOPLE DON’T EXPERIENCE
THEMSELVES AS HAVING BEEN BORN
INTO THE WRONG BODY.
BUT THEY MIGHT FIND THEMSELVES
DEEPLY UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THE
KINDS OF STRAIGHTJACKETS OF
GENDER.
THE WAYS IN WHICH, YOU KNOW,
YOU’RE SUPPOSED TO SORT OF
PRESENT, AGAIN, THIS VERY NARROW
NOTION OF FEMININITY IF YOU HAVE
A FEMALE BODY, A VERY NARROW
NOTION OF MASCULINITY IF YOU
HAVE A MALE BODY.
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS RECENTLY
THERE’S BEEN AN EXPLOSION OF
GENDER NON-CONFORMING PEOPLE IN
MAINSTREAM MEDIA, CHALLENGING
CONVENTIONAL GENDER ROLES.
>> THIS IS THE FIRST TIME AN
OPENLY TRANSGENDER PERSON HAS
APPEARED ON THE COVER OF "TIME"
MAGAZINE, WHY NOW DO YOU THINK,
LAVERNE?
>> BECAUSE OF THE INTERNET AND
BECAUSE OF SOCIAL MEDIA TRANS
PEOPLE WE OUR VOICES NOW, AND WE
ARE LETTING OUR VOICE BE HEARD.
>> I THINK THAT WE ARE BORN AND
WE’RE ASSIGNED A SEX AT BIRTH.
THAT IS A MATTER NONE OF US HAVE
CONTROL OVER, BUT WE DO HAVE
CONTROL OVER OUR DESTINIES AND
OVER OUR IDENTITIES AND WE
SHOULD BE RESPECTED.
>> Reporter: PROFESSOR ANN
PELLEGRINI BELIEVES THAT THE
GROWING VISIBILITY OF GENDER-
NON-CONFORMING PEOPLE AND THE
LEGALIZATION OF SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE IN 19 STATES, HAS
FORCED THE FASHION WORLD TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE PRESENCE AND
BUYING POWER OF THE L.G.B.T.Q.
COMMUNITY.
>> THE REALLY SHORT ANSWER WOULD
BE CAPITALISM.
AT THE END OF THE DAY, IT’S
ABOUT SEEING THAT THERE’S A
MARKET.
>> I’VE MET A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
SAY THINGS LIKE THEY’VE BEEN
PUTTING OFF GETTING MARRIED FOR
TEN YEARS BECAUSE THEY COULDN’T
FATHOM WHAT THEY WOULD WEAR.
>> Reporter: PEW RESEARCH
ESTIMATES THAT THERE HAVE BEEN
MORE THAN 70,000 SAME-SEX
MARRIAGES SINCE 2004, WHEN
MASSACHUSETTS BECAME THE FIRST
U.S. STATE TO LEGALIZE THEM.
>> SO IT’S OUR FIRST FULL
COLLECTION WHERE WE DID SHIRTS
BLAZERS PANTS, BATHING SUITS, WE
DID IT ALL.
>> Reporter: AND THAT HAS MEANT
NEW CLIENTS FOR START-UP
COMPANIES LIKE MARIMACHO, A
BROOKLYN-BASED CLOTHING LINE
THAT DESIGNS CLASSIC MENSWEAR
FOR THE UNCONVENTIONALLY
MASCULINE.
>> I THINK THERE’S A STEREOTYPE
OF MASCULINE WOMEN EXISTING
OUTSIDE OF FASHION.
IT, SORT OF, TAKES THEM AS, YOU
KNOW, PERPETUAL TEENAGERS THAT
ARE ALWAYS GONNA BE AWKWARD AND
DRESSED IN ILL-FITTING CLOTHING.
>> Reporter: OWNERS IVETTE AND
CRYSTAL GONZALEZ-ALE, WHO ARE
MARRIED, SAY INVESTORS LAUGHED
AT THEIR BUSINESS IDEA AT
ENTREPRENEURIAL MIXERS BACK IN
2010.
YET, THE OVERWHELMING SUPPORT
FROM THEIR L.G.B.T.Q. COMMUNITY
ALLOWED THEM TO FUND THEIR
PROJECT ENTIRELY WITHOUT
INVESTORS.
>> FROM THE MOMENT WE PUT UP OUR
WEBSITE, FOLKS HAVE BEEN POURING
IN EMAILS ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT IT
IS FOR THEM TO HAVE CLOTHING
THAT’S APPROPRIATE FOR THEIR
GENDER.
>> Reporter: AND NOW MANY
MAINSTREAM LABELS ARE FOLLOWING
SUIT.
IN 2012, FORD MODELS CHOSE
FEMALE OLYMPIC SWIMMER AND NEW
YORK ARTIST, CASEY LEGLER, AS
ITS NEWEST MENSWEAR MODEL.
IN THE SAME YEAR, YVES SAINT
LAURENT CHOSE A FEMALE MODEL AS
THE FACE OF ITS SPRING/SUMMER
MENSWEAR COLLECTION.
AND JUST THIS YEAR, LUXURY
RETAILE BARNEYS NEW YORK
FEATURED 17 TRANSGENDER MODELS
IN ITS SPRING CAMPAIGN.
>> NONE OF THESE DESIGNERS WOULD
BE SORT OF TRYING TO PRODUCE
CLOTHES THAT WOULD APPEAL TO
MASCULINE WOMEN IF THEY DIDN’T
THINK THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO
COULD WALK IN WITH A WALLET AND
PULL OUT A CREDIT CARD.
>> Reporter: THOUGH MAINSTREAM
DESIGNERS ARE STARTING TO CATER
TO THE NEEDS OF THE L.G.B.T.Q.
COMMUNITY, SOME SHOPPERS SAY
THAT SORT OF ACCEPTANCE HASN’T
TRICKLED DOWN TO THEIR STORES.
>> MOST OF OUR CUSTOMERS HAVE
TRIED DEPARTMENT STORES WHERE
THE DRESSING ROOMS ARE TYPICALLY
GENDERED, AND THAT IS A REALLY
VIOLENT EXPERIENCE TO BE REMOVED
FROM A DRESSING ROOM OR TO BE
TOLD THAT YOU DON’T BELONG THERE
BECAUSE OF YOUR PERCEIVED
GENDER.
>> Reporter: WHAT WAS SURPRISING
TO YOU WHEN JUST TRYING TO SHOP
AT A STORE AND GOING INTO A
FITTING ROOM?
>> THERE’S A WEIRD TENDENCY IN
PEOPLE TO PANIC WHEN THEY CAN’T
TELL IF YOU’RE A MAN OR A WOMAN,
OR HOW YOU MAY IDENTIFY.
>> Reporter: RACHEL TUTERA SAYS
DISCRIMINATION AND JUDGMENT
DIRECTED AT PEOPLE LIKE HER IS
OFTEN INEVITABLE.
THAT’S WHY TWO YEARS AGO SHE
STARTED A FASHION BLOG CALLED
"THE HANDSOME BUTCH."
THE SITE HOPES TO EMPOWER
READERS WITH A SIMPLE MESSAGE,
WHICH IS THAT THEY TOO HAVE THE
RIGHT TO BE HANDSOME.
>> IT WAS ALMOST LIKE A
MEDITATION I HAD FOR MYSELF WHEN
I WAS FIRST SHOPPING.
IT WAS, I HAVE THE RIGHT TO BE
HERE.
I THINK I JUST HAD TO SAY OVER
AND OVER TO MYSELF, "YOU HAVE
THE RIGHT TO BE HANDSOME.
YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO BE
HANDSOME."
UNTIL IT ACTUALLY FELT LIKE A
RIGHT INSTEAD OF, LIKE, A
MEDITATION I WAS TRYING TO
CONVINCE MYSELF WAS TRUE.
>> Reporter: TUTERA’S WORK WILL
BE FEATURED IN AN UPCOMING
DOCUMENTARY PRODUCED BY LENA
DUNHAM OF THE HIT HBO SERIES
"GIRLS."
SHE SAYS THE ONE THING SHE WON’T
BE TAILORING IN THE COMING
MONTHS IS HER MESSAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO
"VIEWERS LIKE YOU."
YOUR RESPONSE TO SOME OF OUR
RECENT WORK.
WE GOT A GOOD DEAL OF FEEDBACK
ABOUT LAST SUNDAY’S INTERVIEW
WITH PRESIDENT TONG OF KIRIBATI
ABOUT HIS PLAN TO BAN COMMERCIAL
TUNA FISHING IN THE WATERS OFF
HIS PACIFIC ISLAND NATION.
SOME VIEWERS WONDERED, HOW
FEASIBLE THE IDEA IS?
JOEL SHIPP WROTE US ON FACEBOOK:
"THEY WILL SIMPLY FISH OUTSIDE
THOSE AREAS.
TUNAS MOVE LONG DISTANCES EVERY
SINGLE DAY.
THEY DON’T STAY IN ONE PLACE."
AND DAVID CRAMER WONDERED:
"HOW DO WE KEEP THE CHINESE
FISHING FLEETS OUT?"
BUT MOST VIEWERS PRAISED
PRESIDENT TONG FOR TRYING.
ROBERT CUTLER WROTE US ON OUR
WEBSITE:
"EXTRAORDINARY INTERVIEW.
PRESIDENT TONG IS SO PERCEPTIVE,
DIGNIFIED, AND TUNED INTO THE
ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES WE
FACE.
OTHER SHORT-SIDED POLITICAL
LEADERS AND AN INDUSTRY
MOTIVATED BY GREED, NOT JUST
SURVIVAL, COULD LEARN A GREAT
DEAL FROM HIM."
JESSE BUSTAMANTE WROTE US ON
FACEBOOK:
"A FIVE YEAR MORATORIUM ON
COMMERCIAL FISHING WOULD
REPLENISH THE OCEANS.
ONE MAN.
ONE BOAT."
10/6 ADDED THIS:
"EVER BEEN OFF THE COAST OF NEW
JERSEY AND SEEN THE COMMERCIAL
FISHING INDUSTRY AT WORK?
IT WAS ENOUGH FOR ME TO WANT TO
BAN COMMERCIAL FISHING
ALTOGETHER, WORLDWIDE.
DIRTY, FILTHY, POLLUTING JERKS."
WE ALSO HEARD FROM MANY OF YOU
ABOUT JEFFREY BROWN’S PROFILE OF
GARRISON KEILLOR ABOUT THE 40th
ANNIVERSARY OF "A PRAIRIE HOME
COMPANION."
MONYA HANSON SHENKENBERG WROTE:
"ONE OF MY FAVORITE SHOWS.
ALWAYS MAKES ME SMILE AND
SOMETIMES LAUGH OUT LOUD."
AND SANDRA LUSTER-HARPER
RESPONDED TO KEILLOR’S
SUGGESTION TO LIVE FOR TODAY.
"MY MOM LEFT ME THE SAME
PHILOSOPHY THE DAY BEFORE SHE
PASSED.
SHE NEVER GOT TO TOMORROW.
SO I TRY TO LIVE IN THE MOMENT."
AS ALWAYS, LET US KNOW WHAT YOU
THINK OF OUR STORIES, ON
TWITTER, FACEBOOK OR AT
newshour.pbs.org
>> Sreenivasan: SOME LATE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT, A
SECOND AMERICAN INFECTED WITH
EBOLA IN LIBERIA IS EXPECTED TO
BE FLOWN TO THE UNITED STATES IN
THE NEXT 72 HOURS.
EARLIER TODAY, A SPECIAL CHARTER
CARRYING THE OTHER STRICKEN
AMERICAN LANDED AT A MILITARY
BASE..
HE IS NOW HOSPITALIZED IN AN
ISOLATION WARD IN ATLANTA.
BOTH WERE IN LIBERIA TO TREAT
THOSE SUFFERING FROM THE
DISEASE.
AND ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU WARNED HAMAS
IT WOULD PAY AN INTOLERABLE
PRICE IF IT CONTINUES ROCKET
FIRE ON ISRAEL.
THIS AS ISRAELI TROOPS PULLED
BACK FROM SOME POSITIONS IN
GAZA, JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW, I AM HARI SREENIVASAN,
GOOD NIGHT.
Captioning sponsored by WNET
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org